Project Material/ProjectSummary.md, before:

# I Choose You!

Oh No!  Ash’s pokecardex is broken!  Before Ash was a pokemon trainer, he practiced his training knowledge by playing the Pokemon Card game with his friends.  He received a Pokecardex, which was a tool that would take his card info and store his card library and run battle simulations.  Luckily before it died, Ash was able to backup the pokecardex as a json file.  However, the pokecardex is no longer available for mass market sales.  It is your task to help Ash create a new pokecardex tool for him to relive the glory days of his childhood.

## The Pokemon Card Game Overview

The pokemon card game consists of three different types of Pokemon cards:

- Trainer
- Pokemon
- Energy

To simplify the behavior of this game, we'll only be working with Pokemon cards.  A battle takes place based on two cards.  A turn involves:

- selecting a move (if there are multiple)
- attacking your opponent
- calculating the damage which is: `base_damage * opposing_weakness (default 1) - opposing resistence
- subtracting the damage from the opposition's HP

This is done for both sides until a pokemon has reached 0 HP, at which point the pokemon has fainted and a new Pokemon must be selected.  The loser is when their party has been eliminated.  Let's take Meowth for example:

![Meowth Pokemon Card](meowth_card.png)

Meowth is a normal type Pokemon that has a start HP of 50, an attack of 10, a weakness to fighting of 2 times, and a resistence to psychic of -30.  If Meowth were to be attacked by a fighting pokemon, the damage to Meowth would be doubled (weakness of 2 times).  If Meowth were to be attackde by a psychic pokemon, it's attack would lose 30 damage points (stopped at 0).

## Inputs

You will be given via a set of json files that will represent sets of pokemon (see `pokemon_party.json` as an example).  Each pokemon is represented using a json object like so:

```json
{
    "artist": "Ken Sugimori",
    "attacks": [
      {
        "convertedEnergyCost": 2,
        "cost": [
          "Colorless",
          "Colorless"
        ],
        "damage": "20",
        "name": "Whirlwind",
        "text": "If your opponent has any Benched Pokemon, he or she chooses 1 of them and switches it with the Defending Pokemon. (Do the damage before switching the Pokemon.)"
      },
      {
        "convertedEnergyCost": 3,
        "cost": [
          "Colorless",
          "Colorless",
          "Colorless"
        ],
        "damage": "",
        "name": "Mirror Move",
        "text": "If Pidgeotto was attacked last turn, do the final result of that attack on Pidgeotto to the Defending Pokemon."
      }
```

`pokemon_master_list.json` contains all of the possible Pokemon that may be selected.

## Template

A templated file has been created for you to use `pokecarddex.py`.

## Outputs

Your task is to create a class that will take place for the pokecardex.  This class will take an optional input for its `__init__` which will be a json file path that represents the pokemon to be prefilled.  This class must have the following attributes/methods:

| name           | attr/meth | description                                                                      |
| -------------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `party`        | attr      | A list of `Pokemon` that represents the current party                            |
| `order`        | attr      | A list of `Pokemon` that represents the parties selected fighting order          |
| `set_order`    | method    | Sets the order of the pokemon based on a list of strings for the pokemon names   |
| `battle`       | method    | simulates a battle based on the passed in opposing `PokeCardDex` class's `party` |
| `heal_party`   | method    | heals the party pokemon to their original starting hp                            |
| `add_to_party` | method    | adds a `Pokemon` to the party.  It will be added to the end of the party order   |

In addition to `PokeCardDex` class, the `Pokemon` class will need to be defined.  This class will be used to represent pokemon for the `PokeCardDex` party.  The `Pokemon` class shall have the following attributes/methods:

| name          | attr/meth | description                                                                          |
| ------------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `name`        | attr      | the name of the Pokemon                                                              |
| `hp`          | attr      | the current health points (hp) of the Pokemon                                        |
| `energy_type` | attr      | a string that represents the energy type of the pokemon                              |
| `weakness`    | attr      | a tuple that represents the energy type and stregth of the weakness (if any)         |
| `resiliance`  | attr      | a tuple that represents the energy type and damage offset of the resiliance (if any) |
| `moves`       | attr      | a list of tuples that represent the name and damage of the moves                     |
| `is_fainted`  | attr      | a boolean that represents if the pokemon is at 0 HP                                  |

## Assumptions

The following are some assumptions that you can take when designing this:

- The move energy type is the same as the pokemon.
- There is no "energy cost" to performing a move.
- If the attack requires a coin flip, ignore the actions that are outlined by the coin flip.
- An evolved pokemon card DOES NOT require the stage 1 predecesssor.
- The opposing team always goes first.
- The pokemon name will be unique.
- The pokemon order will be set before performing a battle.
- If the attack damage has a modifier such as `+`, then assume that modifier is null (meaning it has no affect on the damage and can be ignored)
- If the attack damage is empty or `'?'` (most likely due to a more complicated attack) assume a damage of 5 hp.
- Selecting a move for attack is done by interating over the moves sequencially rotating to the beginning after having exhausted all moves.

## Expected Behaviors

In the end, you should have a completed `PokeCardDex` class that when calling battle, will go through a simulation of a card game battle and declare a victor.  The state of the pokemon should be preserved, meaning any damage during the fight doesn't reset once the battle is over.  

## Grading & Unit Testing

Each student will get a different set of pokemon for their party and the challengers party.  Unit testing will be done to make sure that all attributes and methods have been properly implemented.  A battle will be triggered and compared to my implementation.  If the results are different then a deeper analysis of your code will be conducted to make sure the discrepencies are indeed within your code.

The grading will be broken up like so:

| Task/Action                                                                | Points |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
| `Pokemon` and `PokeCardDex` are importable (no syntax errors)              | 10     |
| `Pokemon` has all the expected attributes and methods                      | 20     |
| `PokeCardDex` properly instantiates with a json file                       | 20     |
| `PokeCardDex` properly adds pokemon to the party                           | 10     |
| `PokeCardDex` properly sets the order                                      | 10     |
| `PokeCardDex` properly heals all party pokemon to the appropriate start hp | 10     |
| `PokeCardDex` properly simulates a battle                                  | 20     |

Commit message:

updating project materials with additional detail

Project Material/ProjectSummary.md, after:

# I Choose You!

Oh No!  Ash’s pokecardex is broken!  Before Ash was a pokemon trainer, he practiced his training knowledge by playing the Pokemon Card game with his friends.  He received a Pokecardex, which was a tool that would take his card info and store his card library and run battle simulations.  Luckily before it died, Ash was able to backup the pokecardex as a json file.  However, the pokecardex is no longer available for mass market sales.  It is your task to help Ash create a new pokecardex tool for him to relive the glory days of his childhood.

## The Pokemon Card Game Overview

The pokemon card game consists of three different types of Pokemon cards:

- Trainer
- Pokemon
- Energy

To simplify the behavior of this game, we'll only be working with Pokemon cards.  A battle takes place based on two cards.  A turn involves:

- selecting a move (if there are multiple)
- attacking your opponent
- calculating the damage which is: `base_damage * opposing_weakness (default 1) - opposing resistence`
- subtracting the damage from the opposition's HP

This is done for both sides until a pokemon has reached 0 HP, at which point the pokemon has fainted and a new Pokemon must be selected.  The loser is when their party has been eliminated.  Let's take Meowth for example:

![Meowth Pokemon Card](meowth_card.png)

Meowth is a normal type Pokemon that has a start HP of 50, an attack of 10, a weakness to fighting of 2 times, and a resistence to psychic of -30.  If Meowth were to be attacked by a fighting pokemon, the damage to Meowth would be doubled (weakness of 2 times).  If Meowth were to be attackde by a psychic pokemon, it's attack would lose 30 damage points (stopped at 0).

## Inputs

You will be given via a set of json files that will represent sets of pokemon (see `pokemon_party.json` as an example).  Each pokemon is represented using a json object like so:

```json
{
    "artist": "Ken Sugimori",
    "attacks": [
      {
        "convertedEnergyCost": 2,
        "cost": [
          "Colorless",
          "Colorless"
        ],
        "damage": "20",
        "name": "Whirlwind",
        "text": "If your opponent has any Benched Pokemon, he or she chooses 1 of them and switches it with the Defending Pokemon. (Do the damage before switching the Pokemon.)"
      },
      {
        "convertedEnergyCost": 3,
        "cost": [
          "Colorless",
          "Colorless",
          "Colorless"
        ],
        "damage": "",
        "name": "Mirror Move",
        "text": "If Pidgeotto was attacked last turn, do the final result of that attack on Pidgeotto to the Defending Pokemon."
      }
```

`pokemon_master_list.json` contains all of the possible Pokemon that may be selected.

## Template and File Naming

A templated file has been created for you to use `pokecarddex.py`.  You must use this template for your submission keeping the name of the file the same with the exception of prepending your canvas username to the front of file.  For example, if your username is `jmertz` then your submitted file should be `jmertz_pokecarddex.py`.  Note: canvas will append a `-<num>` such as `jmertz_pokecarddex-1.py` to the end of the file when submitting a file multiple times.  This is ok, the important part is following the format `<username>_pokecarddex.py` when submitting to canvas.

## Outputs

Your task is to create a class that will take place for the `PokeCardDex`.  This class will take an optional input for its `__init__` which will be a json file path that represents the pokemon to be prefilled.  **It is important that `__init__` handles the case where no json file path is passed in!**  This class **must** have the following attributes/methods:

| name           | attr/meth | description                                                                      |
| -------------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `party`        | attr      | A list of `Pokemon` that represents the current party                            |
| `order`        | attr      | A list of `Pokemon` that represents the parties selected fighting order          |
| `set_order`    | method    | Sets the order of the pokemon based on a list of strings for the pokemon names   |
| `battle`       | method    | simulates a battle based on the passed in opposing `PokeCardDex` class's `party` |
| `heal_party`   | method    | heals the party pokemon to their original starting hp                            |
| `add_to_party` | method    | adds a `Pokemon` to the party.  It will be added to the end of the party order   |

In addition to `PokeCardDex` class, the `Pokemon` class will need to be defined.  This class will be used to represent pokemon for the `PokeCardDex` party.  The `Pokemon` class shall have the following attributes/methods:

| name          | attr/meth | description                                                                          |
| ------------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `name`        | attr      | the name of the Pokemon                                                              |
| `hp`          | attr      | the current health points (hp) of the Pokemon                                        |
| `energy_type` | attr      | a string that represents the energy type of the pokemon                              |
| `weakness`    | attr      | a tuple that represents the energy type and stregth of the weakness (if any)         |
| `resiliance`  | attr      | a tuple that represents the energy type and damage offset of the resiliance (if any) |
| `moves`       | attr      | a list of tuples that represent the name and damage of the moves                     |
| `is_fainted`  | attr      | a boolean that represents if the pokemon is at 0 HP                                  |

The `Pokemon` class shall also take the following inputs for the `__init__`:

| name        | input type       | description                                                                    |
| ----------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| name        | string           | the name of the pokemon                                                        |
| start_hp    | int              | the starting (or base) hp of the pokemon                                       |
| energy_type | string           | the energy type of the pokemon (electric, water, fire, etc,.).                 |
| weakness    | string           | the energy type the pokemon is weak against                                    |
| resistance  | string           | the energy type the pokemon is resistant against                               |
| moves       | tuple (str, int) | a tuple of ((str), (int)) pairs that represent the move name and damage amount |

## Assumptions (IMPORTANT! READ THIS CAREFULLY!)

The following are some assumptions that you can take when designing this:

- The move energy type is the same as the pokemon.
- There is no "energy cost" to performing a move.
- If the attack requires a coin flip, ignore the actions that are outlined by the coin flip.
- An evolved pokemon card DOES NOT require the stage 1 predecesssor.
- The opposing team always goes first.
- The pokemon name will be unique.
- The pokemon order will be set before performing a battle.
- If the attack damage has a modifier such as `+`, then assume that modifier is null (meaning it has no affect on the damage and can be ignored)
- If the attack damage is empty or `'?'` (most likely due to a more complicated attack) assume a damage of 5 hp.
- Selecting a move for attack is done by interating over the moves sequencially rotating to the beginning after having exhausted all moves.

## Expected Behaviors

In the end, you should have a completed `PokeCardDex` class that when calling battle, will go through a simulation of a card game battle and declare a victor.  The state of the pokemon should be preserved, meaning any damage during the fight doesn't reset once the battle is over.  

## Grading & Unit Testing

Each student will get a different set of pokemon for their party and the challengers party.  Unit testing will be done to make sure that all attributes and methods have been properly implemented.  A battle will be triggered and compared to my implementation.  If the results are different then a deeper analysis of your code will be conducted to make sure the discrepencies are indeed within your code.

The grading will be broken up like so:

| Task/Action                                                                | Points |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
| `Pokemon` and `PokeCardDex` are importable (no syntax errors)              | 10     |
| `Pokemon` has all the expected attributes and methods                      | 20     |
| `PokeCardDex` properly instantiates with a json file                       | 20     |
| `PokeCardDex` properly adds pokemon to the party                           | 10     |
| `PokeCardDex` properly sets the order                                      | 10     |
| `PokeCardDex` properly heals all party pokemon to the appropriate start hp | 10     |
| `PokeCardDex` properly simulates a battle                                  | 20     |
